# mt13

## 1
Briefly describe the main features of each of the following OS architectures:

**(a)** Virtual Machine

**(b)** Micro-Kernel


## 2
What is the difference between a general-purpose and a real-time operating system?


## 3
What is the single most important criteria for an interactive scheduler system to minimize?


## 4
For the following list of jobs, (`job id`, `admission time`,
`required CPU time`), assume a shortest-job-first schedule is used to determine the ordering of all **none-running** jobs. Each jobs is run to completion before a new job is
started, and context switches incur no overhead (*i.e.*, take zero time). The jobs are:
$$
\begin{matrix}
(A, 0, 16),&(B, 0, 6),&(C, 2, 14),\\
(D, 3, 8),&(E, 4, 4),&(F, 6, 1)
\end{matrix}
$$
For this scenario please describe:

**(a)** The order of execution.

**(b)** The job completion rate.

**(c)** The **average** time spent waiting for the CPU.


## 5
Implement a binary semaphore using an atomic test-and-clear instruction (TCL). Give the psudocode for both `P(s)` and `V(s)`.


## 6
Write a function “`swap(int a, int b)`” that exchanges the values of these two variables. Make sure this function is thread-safe (*i.e.* make sure no race conditions can occur).


## 7
A system provided a “`burn(image, CD)`” command to send an image file (`image`) to one of six CD-burners (`CD1` or `CD2` or ... `CD6`).  The system also provides a “`readCD(CD, image)`” function to create an image file from a CD, *i.e.*, read from a CD to an image file. The system has exactly six CD burners, and no other CD read/write devices. Using any clear pseudocode, show how you would:

**(a)** Write a “`safe_CD_copy(source, destination)`” that is thread-safe (*i.e.*, can be called by code in an undetermined number of threads without problem). In this case, make sure you avoid deadlocks.

**(b)** Which of the four conditions of deadlock have you addressed ... or, in other words, explain you know your solution will not result in any deadlocks?


## 8
A system has $$50\:\text{MB}$$ of RAM. If we have 5 active processes, and 64-bit addresses, and 8-byte page table entries (PTEs), how much space is used by page tables in this system.

**(a)** using $$8\:\text{KB}$$ pages

**(b)** using $$1\:\text{KB}$$ pages

**(c)** an inverted page table (again, simply assume 8-byte PTEs, and $$8\:\text{KB}$$ pages)


## 9
Is the following resource allocation safe?

| free=2 | has | max |
| :----: | :-: | :-: |
| A | 2 | 9 |
| B | 1 | 7 |
| C | 4 | 6 |
| D | 2 | 12 |
| E | 6 | 16 |


## 10
Is the following resource allocation safe? **Can** a deadlock occur from this configuration?

| free=3 | has | max |
| :----: | :-: | :-: |
| A | 2 | 9 |
| B | 1 | 7 |
| C | 4 | 6 |
| D | 2 | 12 |
| E | 6 | 15 |
