# mt15

## 1.
What is the main disadvantage of a micro-kernel operating system architecture?


## 2.
Why do we need multiprogramming today? (*i.e.* even though CPUs are considerably cheaper than the early days of computing)?


## 3.
Describe the logic of a **counting** semaphore.  Show, in pseudogode, what happens within both a "down(s)" operation, and an "up(s)" operation.


## 4.
Scheduling

**(a)** For shortest-job-first scheduling, is the algorithm optimal in terms of **turnaround time**?

**(b)** Which of the following algorithms would be better in terms of **throughput**: **shortest job first** / **shortest remaining time first** (pcik one)

**(c)** If you are concerned about starvation, would you ask about the throughut or the turnaround time of a system?

**(d)** Scheduling can dramatically speed up batch computing if we are careful about "admission scheduling" ... expalin why that is true (*e.g.*, by offering a brief example).


## 5.
Would it be possible to solve the "dining philosophers" problem by having each philosopher acquire a **single** global lock called "myTurn" before they start eating?  Why do you think this would work, or why do you believe it would not?


## 6.
How do 2-level page tables help in reducing the memory used for table pages?


## 7.
A system has 8GB of RAM.  If we have 8 active processes, use 32-bit virtual addressses, and need 8-byte page table entries (PTEs), how much space is used by page tables in this system for each fo the followign tpage sizes?

**(a)** using 4KB pages

**(b)** using 2KB pages

**(c)** using 1KB pages

**(d)** using 1KB pages, but using an inverted page table instead.


## 8.
Are each of the following resource allocations safe?
**(a)**

| free=2 | has | max |
| :----: | :-: | :-: |
| A | 1 | 16 |
| B | 8 | 9 |
| C | 2 | 4 |
| D | 1 | 6 |
| E | 3 | 12 |

**(b)**

| free=1 | has | max |
| :----: | :-: | :-: |
| A | 1 | 14 |
| B | 1 | 7 |
| C | 4 | 6 |
| D | 2 | 16 |
| E | 1 | 2 |


**(C)**

| free=3 | has | max |
| :----: | :-: | :-: |
| A | 5 | 9 |
| B | 1 | 7 |
| C | 2 | 5 |
| D | 2 | 11 |
| E | 1 | 5 |

**(d)**  For "unsafe" states, if any, what would "unsafe" mean if "max" was replaced by "needs in order to continue" in the above tables?


