# q05

## 1.
Without external environmental events (like accidents or cosmic events that result in randomly flipped bits), deadlocked processes will not continue running no matter how long we wait.  ➔ [T] 


## 2.
Page replacement algorithms typically decide which page to evict from memory when necessary.  ➔ [T] 


## 3.
LRU is widely considered to be a very practical algorithm (in particular, easy and efficient to implement) for page replacement in virtual memory system  ➔ [F] 


## 4.
The second chance page replacement algorithm performs better than the clock page replacement algorithm.  ➔ [F] 


## 5.
The "clock" page replacement algorithm must be implemented using linked lists for efficiency.  ➔ [F] 


## 6.
If two pages are both accessed the same number of times, but one (call it page A) has been accessed more recently than another (call it page B), then "aging" page replacement algorithms are more likely to evict page A than page B from RAM.  ➔ [F] 


## 7.
For "second chance" page replacement, we reset the "referenced bit" periodically. Note: By "periodically" I mean that we set it at fixed intervals of time (e.g., every ten seconds, every minute, etc.).  ➔ [F] (“NRU”) 


## 8. 
There is no such thing as an "optimal" page replacement algorithm. (By optimal, I mean an algorithm focused on picking the best page to remove from memory, and which cannot be improved upon - in terms of hit rate - by any other algorithm that also attempts to pick the best page to remove from memory).  ➔ [F] 


## 9.
Belady's anomaly could occur with any kind of page replacement algorithm.  ➔ [F] 


## 10.
A single page fault is "worse" (in terms of performance impact on a running process) than a single TLB miss.  ➔ [T]



